README.md, before:

# Aion GeoBuilder

Aion GeoBuilder filters relevant level data from the Aion game client and converts it into compact files for the server emulator. It is a rewrite of GeoDataBuilderJ and parses the following data:
- Terrain heightmaps
- Terrain surface materials
- Static entities: [brushes](https://web.archive.org/web/20150131204653/http://docs.cryengine.com/display/SDKDOC2/Brushes) and objects (vegetation)
- Dynamic entities: doors, town objects, event objects and spawnable objects with entity IDs (called "static_id" in most Aion server emulators)
- Mesh materials/collision intentions

Currently not supported:
- Animated entities other than doors (elevators, air ships, etc.)
- Navmesh generation


## Prerequisites

- Java 21 or later
- Maven


## Usage

```sh
mvn package
java -jar target/geobuilder.jar "path/to/the/game/client"
```
Optional arguments control what data will be processed. Run the program without arguments to see all options.


## Info resources

- [PyFFI + QSkope (*.cgf/cga file analyzer)](https://github.com/niftools/pyffi) 
- [CryEngine asset converter](https://github.com/Markemp/Cryengine-Converter) (partly based on PyFFI's [cgf.xml](https://github.com/niftools/pyffi/blob/develop/pyffi/formats/cgf/cgf.xml))
- [CryEngine source code](https://github.com/MergHQ/CRYENGINE)
- [C# port of GeoDataBuilderJ, client file viewer and Monono2 (level viewer)](https://github.com/zzsort/monono2)
- [GeoDataBuilderJ_src_20120911.zip](https://app.assembla.com/spaces/aion-ger-emulator/subversion/source/HEAD/trunk/Tools/GeoDataBuilderJ/GeoDataBuilderJ_src_20120911.zip?_format=raw) (original repo is lost in time)

Commit message:

New terrain generation
- Fixed value collisions between terrain z values and terrain cutouts
- Terrain and terrain materials are now written as heightmap PNG files with improved compression (via oxipng optimizer)
- Write only unique heightmaps (levels using the same heightmap are handled via comma-separated levelIds in the file names). Sharing terrain data between maps saves quite a bit of memory in the game server.
- Parse heightmap sizes instead of assuming a quadratic layout
- Fixed small error in rotation conversion formula in ObjectsLstLoader
- Removed all terrain references from .geo files as everything is now based on file names
- Removed static material definitions as they're now loaded from materials.xml
- Added option to include non-skill materials during terrain material generation. The server currently only implements terrain material skills, so this option is disabled by default

README.md, after:

# Aion GeoBuilder

Aion GeoBuilder filters relevant level data from the Aion game client and converts it into compact files for our [server emulator](https://github.com/beyond-aion/aion-server).  
It is a rewrite of GeoDataBuilderJ and parses the following data:
- Terrain heightmaps
- Terrain surface materials
- Static entities: [brushes](https://web.archive.org/web/20150131204653/http://docs.cryengine.com/display/SDKDOC2/Brushes) and objects (vegetation)
- Dynamic entities: doors, town objects, event objects and spawnable objects with entity IDs (called "static_id" in most Aion server emulators)
- Mesh materials/collision intentions

Currently not supported:
- Animated entities other than doors (elevators, air ships, etc.)
- Navmesh generation

The file generation uses various methods to reduce file sizes and server memory usage, some of which can be deactivated for debugging purposes.


## Prerequisites

- Java 21 or later
- Maven


## Usage

```sh
mvn package
java -jar target/geobuilder.jar "path/to/the/game/client"
```
![GeoBuilder](/screenshot.png?raw=true)

Optional arguments control what data will be processed. Run the program without passing a game client path or other arguments to see all options.


## Info resources

- [PyFFI + QSkope](https://github.com/niftools/pyffi) (*.cgf/.cga file analyzer)
- [CryEngine asset converter](https://github.com/Markemp/Cryengine-Converter) (partly based on PyFFI's [cgf.xml](https://github.com/niftools/pyffi/blob/develop/pyffi/formats/cgf/cgf.xml))
- [CryEngine source code](https://github.com/MergHQ/CRYENGINE)
- [C# port of GeoDataBuilderJ, client file viewer and Monono2 (level viewer)](https://github.com/zzsort/monono2)
- [GeoDataBuilderJ_src_20120911.zip](https://app.assembla.com/spaces/aion-ger-emulator/subversion/source/HEAD/trunk/Tools/GeoDataBuilderJ/GeoDataBuilderJ_src_20120911.zip?_format=raw) (original repo is lost in time)
